# 010SMSIntegrationTwilioUG

:::::: # SMS Integration with Twilio Marketplace User Guide\[] The SMS Integration with Twilio provides the ability to configure Short Messaging Service (SMS) notifications within the UKG Ready application. When this integration is added and set up, SMS message configuration will be available in the following areas: - Global Notifications - Workflow Notifications - Communication Templates (HR only) Twilio offers a global platform that makes sending SMS notifications easy. - Send SMS messages with local and toll-free numbers, short codes, custom alphanumeric sender IDs, or by using your own existing phone numbers. - Send Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS) messages. Outside the U.S. and Canada, attachments are sent as links. - Send text messages over the carrier network to any phone, anywhere in the world. - Automatic route monitoring ensures that long-code phone numbers are used to send messages when a carrier is unable to receive messages from short codes, and that global messages always take the best path. - Send long messages and Twilio will automatically segment and reassemble them. - Messages sent to the same person automatically uses a previously recognizable phone number to create a consistent experience and maintain conversation history. You must set up an account with Twilio prior to using this functionality with Workforce Ready. We have provided links under the **Pricing** tab of the Marketplace product to help you contact them, view Twilio pricing structures, and other Twilio support information. :::: ## This guide includes the following topics: ::: ::: :::: :::  Download this User Guide as PDF ::: ::::::
