# 020SMSIntegrationTwilioUGReqs

::::: # Requirements and Prerequisites\[] To take advantage of SMS functionality, you must complete a few steps prior to using it. First, you must add the **SMS Integration with Twilio** marketplace product. Once added, there are a few housekeeping steps to complete in your company. Once that is done you will then be able to select SMS options within company notifications. ## Download the Marketplace Product To add the marketplace product, navigate to **Marketplace > Marketplace Setup** and add the **SMS Integration with Twilio** marketplace product to the company. ::: \[\[**Note:** ]]The marketplace product contains links and information to Twilio. You must create a Twilio account and gather information from them before you can complete the final installation of the product. ::: - From the **Home** or **Search/Browse** tab, locate and click the **SMS Integration with Twilio** product hyperlink. - Click **Add To Company**. You will be prompted to sign the **Terms And Conditions** page. - After signing the **Terms And Conditions**, select a security profile for the users who will manage this product. This is typically the Company Administrator. - After clicking **OK**, the system will process for a bit and when finished, a **Success** message will display. - You can verify the installation on the **Installed** tab. After you've created your Twilio account, the next step is to edit the marketplace product settings and add your Twilio information. - Under the **Installed** tab, click the edit icon for the product. - Input the Twilio **Account SID**, **Authentication Token**, and **Messaging Service SID** into the appropriate fields. ### Global Setup Once your marketplace product is installed and completed, you will then need to edit a few settings in your company. Enable SMS notifications globally. Multiple options are available. After selecting an option here, SMS fields will then become available in the application. Skipping this step will result in no SMS settings being available. Optionally, you can configure a custom SMS Header that will be appended to the front of each SMS notification. Navigate to the **Company Configuration** widget under the **Company Info** tab, located under **Company Settings > Global Setup > Company Setup**, and select an SMS option in the **Notifications Through** field.  **SMS**: Will use only SMS messaging. **SMS & Email**: Will use SMS messaging and allow the email option as well. **SMS & Mailbox**: Will use SMS messaging and allow the user's mailbox to receive messages. **Email & Mailbox & SMS**: Will use SMS messaging, user mailboxes, and email. **SMS Header:** In this field, you can optionally type a customized header that will be appended to the front of each SMS message sent from the system. For example, you may want to alert recipients who the alert is coming from by entering your company name in this field, i.e., OURCOMPANY: rest of header. Employees can enable/disable SMS in notification preferences. End users will be able to toggle their own SMS notification preferences under **My Info** > **My Information > Notification Preferences**.  Broadcast Messaging can be turned off by unchecking the related boxes for Broadcast Email, Broadcast Mailbox, and Broadcast Message SMS. Unchecking these has no effect on the options under them for Primary Email, Mailbox, and SMS. If Primary Email, Mailbox or SMS are disabled, the corresponding Broadcast Messaging option is disabled as well.  ::: \[\[**Note:** ]]To comply with Twilio and industry standards, end users will be able to reply with STOP, CANCEL, etc. to any SMS notification. If they do, notification preferences will be updated in the application to disable SMS. Notification preference changes can be audited in the Account Audit Trail report as well. :::  :::::
