# 040SMSIntegrationTwilioUGBrdcst

:::::::::::: # Broadcast Messaging\[] Broadcast messaging is a form of communication that allows administrators and managers to send messages to employees en masse. While this form of communication is intended for multiple recipients, it can also be used to send messages to single recipients. Templates can be defined and applied to make creating and managing communications easier. If you have enabled and are using Broadcast Messaging, there are options to send these communications via SMS. ::: \[\[**Tip:** ]]Broadcast Messaging is enabled within the **Mail Settings** widget on the **Company Info** tab under **Company Settings > Global Setup > Company Setup**. ::: ## Broadcast Messaging Templates Within the templates, messages can be defined in the SMS Message text box. SMS messages are limited to 1400 characters and if copying messages from the Email/Mailbox area, the formatting will not be retained in the SMS Message area. An iCalendar attachment and appointment can be defined and is supported for SMS messages.  ## Broadcast Messaging: Security Permissions You can restrict certain users or security profiles from being able to create or send Broadcast Messages. A security item titled **Send Broadcast Communication** is located on the HR Tab, in the Employee Related Functions widget of the security profiles. If this security item is enabled, the user has the **Communicate** button displayed as an option on the Employee Information screen and any other applicable screens. If this item is disabled, the user does not have the **Communicate** button as an option. ## Company Setup SMS Opt In Procedure Companies with SMS Integration with Twilio already enabled must have record of employees opting in to receive notifications via SMS to be compliant with the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) opt-in regulations. An option in the **Mail Settings** section allows existing companies with Twilio Integration enabled to become compliant.  The checkbox, **TCPA Opt-In Compliance Notification**, can be enabled under **Global Setup > Company Setup > Company Info** tab, in the **Mail Settings** section. For companies that already have the Twilio Marketplace Product added, the checkbox is unchecked. When checked, a pop-up notification provides the following text: ::: code Are you sure you want enable this feature? Upon enablement of this feature, all employees and applicants will be opted-out of their current SMS delivery method preferences, giving users the opportunity to complete proper opt-in procedures. ::: When the feature is enabled, the company does not have an option to disable it. After the feature is enabled, all users are opted out. An **Announcement: Opt-In to SMS Notifications** pop-up is shown upon the next login for each employee, including new accounts. The pop-up explains: ::: code You are currently opted-out of SMS notifications. Please navigate to your \[notification preferences] screen to opt-in. ::: ## SMS Opt In Procedure for New Companies Companies using SMS to communicate to their employees need to gather consent from each employee to send them text messages. When SMS is enabled on a Company Account via Twilio integration, all employee accounts including applicants and future hires default to SMS disabled until the employees OPT IN to receive text messages in their Notification Preferences. ## Notification Burst When TCPA is Enabled When the **TCPA Opt-In Compliance Notification** checkbox is enabled in the Company Setup, all existing applicants are opted out of the SMS notification preference. To ensure applicants are aware that they are opted out and to provide them with steps to opt-in, a notification is sent automatically when the TCPA option is enabled. Applicants receive a notification via email when: - The company has enabled the TCPA checkbox in the Company Setup. - The applicant had SMS checked in his/her/their notification preference and is now opted-out. The automatic notification that is triggered when the **TCPA Opt-In Compliance Notification** option is selected, **Applicant SMS Opt-out**, is enabled by default (**Company Settings > Global > Notifications**), and can be cloned or deleted. ::: \[\[**Note:** ]]TCPA Opt-In Compliance is not supported for demo company snapshots. If a snapshot of a demo company is created before the Opt In procedure is in place, and the company decides to reload the snapshot after the procedure is set up, the **TCPA Opt-In Compliance** checkbox and user SMS preferences remain unchanged. ::: ::: \[\[**Important:** ]]When Administrators create a new company using Company Copy or Remote Company Copy, the users' SMS notification preferences are not copied to the new company. This prevents a scenario where a user is Opted In by default when a new company is created using a Company Copy. ::: ## Individual User Opt-In for SMS Delivery Method Companies using SMS to communicate with their employees need employees to consent to receiving SMS to be compliant with TCPA regulations. Each employee can OPT IN to receive notifications through the SMS delivery method. If a user wishes to receive notifications via the SMS delivery method, the user can navigate to the **Notification Preferences** screen and opt-in by enabling the **SMS** Delivery Method checkbox (**My Info > My Information > Notification Preferences**). If a user has not already opted-in and the user does not have a cell phone or country code added to their profile, the **SMS** checkbox appears unchecked. The user has the option to add their cell phone, and a message displays stating **To make SMS available, edit your personal information to add your cell phone and country code**. The message includes a link to the employee's personal information. If the employee has Edit permissions for the **ESS Cell Phone** security item in their assigned security profile, they can opt in by enabling the **SMS** Delivery Method checkbox. If the employee does not have Edit permissions, the system checks if the company has at least one HR Action configured that includes a **Cell Phone** action item. If the company does, the system confirms that the employee has initiate permissions for at least one HR Action with the **Cell Phone** action item. If so, the employee is directed to **My HR > HR Actions** to submit a request to add the cell phone. ::: \[\[**Warning:** ]]Phone numbers must be entered as the full numeric phone number without any special characters (no dashes or parentheses) or spaces. For example, +1 5552345678. ::: When the user has a cell phone added to their profile, the **SMS** checkbox becomes editable. **Reminder**: When a company enables SMS, all employees within the company default to SMS disabled. Users must navigate to their **Notification Preferences** page to OPT IN to receiving notifications via the SMS delivery method. As part of the Opt In procedure, each user is sent a six digit confirmation code that must be entered back into the application. Users can then enter the code into the input boxes in the **Verify Your Phone Number** dialog box. ## SMS Opt In for Applicants Applicants can consent to receiving SMS notifications to ensure compliance with TCPA regulations. Each applicant can Opt In to receive notifications via the SMS Delivery Method. When the **TCPA Opt-In Compliance Notification** option is enabled, users see an enabled **SMS** checkbox when the proper permissions are configured for the applicant and the cell phone/country code are available. The message under the SMS checkbox in Notification Preferences reads: **To make SMS available, edit your applicant profile to add your cell phone and country code**. The words "applicant profile" in the message are a link, and clicking on it takes the applicant to the My Applicant Profile page where, if necessary, they can edit the profile to add the cell phone details. ::: \[\[**Warning:** ]]Phone numbers must be entered as the full numeric phone number without any special characters (no dashes or parentheses) or spaces. For example, +1 5552345678. ::: Users can select the **SMS** checkbox if needed. When they do, a pop-up for **Verify Your Phone Number** opens. Choosing **Send Code** generates a message that says **Sending Code**. If the user closes the pop-up before the code is successfully verified, then the **SMS** checkbox remains unchecked. If the phone is successfully verified, the **SMS** checkbox is enabled. ### SMS Opt-In Via Quick Apply or Apply with Seek Where the **TCPA Opt-In Compliance Notification** is enabled, applicants can Opt In to SMS notifications when using the Quick Apply or Apply with Seek features. Applicants applying for a job using Quick Apply or Apply with Seek can click on **Apply** after entering all valid details and questionnaires (no errors exist). When the job application is submitted successfully, the Completed message displays. When the applicant clicks **OK** on the Completed message, a pop-up displays and asks: ::: code Notify you of update via text messages (SMS)? ::: Another pop-up then allows the applicant to verify their phone number. Once the number is verified, the applicant can choose the **Send Code** option. An error message displays if the code was not sent, and a success message displays when the code is sent successfully. Once it is received, the applicant can enter the code and click the **Verify** option to complete the Opt In process. ## SMS Delivery Preferences Report A **SMS Delivery Preferences** report captures Opt-In/Opt-Out activity for all account types and is available in both Admin companies and Client companies. This allows companies to see the status of SMS opt-ins and opt-outs, perhaps for the purpose of tracking that SMS messages were sent during opt-in periods. This report allows companies to verify that they gathered the proper consent to send out SMS notifications to their applicants and employees. This report was previously available for Partner Resellers and is available for customers via the paths below. - Partner Resellers: **Reports > Marketplace Reports > Twilio > SMS Delivery Preferences** - Customers: **My Reports > Marketplace Reports > Twilio > SMS Delivery Preferences** **Security**: A **SMS Delivery Preferences** security item, located in the security profiles under **Reports > Marketplace Reports**, is available to enable for the appropriate users. When this item is enabled for the security profile assigned to a user, the report becomes available in the menus. ::: \[\[**Important:** ]]This report only captures Opt In/Opt Out behavior moving forward from when the report is made available. Past Opt In/Opt Out data is not captured in the report. ::: ## Assigning Broadcast Messages to Employees Assigning employees to a Broadcast Message is done from the Employee Information report page. Select one or multiple employees and then select the **Communicate** button.  On the pop-up, you can manually create an SMS message and system tags are available. If you have created templates, this is where you apply them. Once a template is selected and applied, you will still have the option to edit the text or enable/disable communication methods and also enable the iCalendar attachment. When enabling a calendar appointment, you must set the When/From/To parameters for the appointment. When sending out a Broadcast Message to employees, the option to specify when to send (Date and Time) the message is available in the Schedule section.  When ready, select the **Send** button and the SMS message will go out to the recipient(s).  ## System Generated SMS Report Users with the appropriate security settings can view the history of outgoing SMS communications within their company to allow for proper accounting. The System Generated SMS report is available under **My Info > My Reports > Marketplace Reports > Twilio > System Generated SMS**. This report is only visible if the **SMS Integration with Twilio** **Marketplace** app is added to the company. In addition, users must have the **System Generated SMS Report** security item enabled in the **Marketplace Reports** section on the **Reports** tab in their assigned Security Profile.  ## User Generated SMS Report Users can view the history of responses to SMS Communications within their company for proper accounting using the User Generated SMS report under **My Info > My Reports > Marketplace Reports > Twilio > User Generated SMS Report**. This report is only visible if the SMS Integration with Twilio Marketplace item is added to the company. In addition, users must have the **User Generated SMS Report** security item enabled in the **Marketplace Reports** section on the **Reports** tab of their assigned Security Profile to access this report. ## Partner Resellers Only: System Generated SMS Report In the System Generated Emails report, a new default column titled **Event Type** has been added that will display the specific type of method used for the message (for example: Broadcast, HR Action Request, etc.). ::::::::::::
