# 050SMSIntegrationTwilioUGAddl

:::::: # More Information on SMS Integration\[] The following sections cover some extra information for users of SMS integration. ## Samsung Users iCalendar attachments in messages can only be sent by Workforce Ready as .ics files, and Twilio only supports the delivery of .ics files. The default **Messages** app on Samsung devices only supports .vcs file attachments. iCalendar attachments sent from Workforce Ready will not be visible in the default **Messages** app on Samsung devices. To receive iCalendar attachments from Workforce Ready, it is recommended that you download **Android Messages** from the app store and use as your default Messages app. ## Data Retention Users If you use Data Retention to purge sensitive information from your databases, a **System Generated SMS** data type will be available. If data is hard-deleted, it can be tracked in the execution history. ## Subscribe Responses From SMS Text When recipients receive an SMS text, they will have the option to unsubscribe by responding with STOP. They will have the option to resubscribe by replying with START. If they resubscribe, they will receive a confirmation message from Twilio indicating they are subscribed again.  When users receive an SMS text message to approve or reject a request, and the request is rejected and requires a comment as to why, the instructions in the text message will clearly instruct the user how to respond and allow them to enter the comment in the text message. ::: \[\[**Example:** ]]The Outgoing Message looks like this: Please reply Y/N followed by this code 73756 to Approve/Reject this request. If N, please also provide a brief comment. Reply STOP on +13173427186 to unsubscribe. ::: ::: \[\[**Example:** ]]The Response/Reply looks like this: N 76542 Employee no longer eligible at this time. ::: ## Two-Way SMS Messages for Scheduler For companies with the Scheduler module enabled, some of the items that can be sent via SMS text messaging require additional details in addition to the approve/reject. These items contain additional details related to the request. ::: \[\[**Example:** ]]Here is an example: Please reply Y/N \<space> followed by this code 11234 to Approve/Reject this request. Please note that the reply will automatically be applicable to the first Peer to Approve Peer request. Please login to WFR to change peers/modify this request. ::: This applies to **Schedule Open Shift**, **Schedule Request for Coverage**, and **Schedule Shift Swap** items. ::::::
